## Methods
The risky decision-making task used in this study will be a modified version of a task previously designed and used in the lab (Brooks, H. R., & Sokol-Hessner, P., 2021). Participants will make a series of choices between risky options (gambles, with possible outcomes of large positive amounts or $0, each received with 50% probability if the gamble is selected) and guaranteed options (consisting of smaller positive amounts received with 100% probability if selected). Choice option values will vary across trials to allow us to precisely establish each individual’s risk preference. Participants will complete this risky monetary decision-making task twice. The first time, they will respond to 50 standard trials which are the same for all participants. We will then estimate risk preferences, and construct a second individualized choice set, consisting of 60 easy trials (those on which we predict the participant will accept or reject the risk with near certainty) and 60 hard trials (those on which we predict the participant will accept or reject the gamble at near-chance levels, because choice options are similar in subjective value). This procedure will account for individual differences in risk preference, and thus equate easy and hard trials across participants to be of the same objective difficulty. Next, a gold-standard cognitive control task, the operation-span task will be used to quantify participants’ capacity for cognitive control. The task requires participants to remember a sequence of letters while also solving basic math problems using addition, multiplication, and subtraction. Higher controllers will complete this standard task more quickly and with fewer errors than lower controllers. Lastly, participants will complete questionnaires and be debriefed. 75 participants will be recruited using the online platform Prolific, previously used in the lab, and the study programmed and executed using jsPsych.
