## Background 
### Abstract 
While risky decision-making necessarily leverages other cognitive functions as part of valuation and choice, the direct connections between these other domains and risky choice have only recently begun to be examined. Using an experimental approach, this project will study the relationship between risky monetary decision-making and cognitive control, defined as the ability to flexibly allocate mental resources to achieve specific goals. By measuring individuals’ cognitive control capacity and risk preferences, we will be able to quantify the relationship between control and risky choice, and potentially identify the roots of individual differences in difficult decision-making. 
## Rationale 
The proposed research will test multiple potential relationships between cognitive control and risky decision making, with the potential to enrich our understanding of both psychological functions. It will additionally lay the groundwork for a smaller in-person follow-up study that we anticipate conducting in the 2022-2023 academic year. This study will use eye tracking in the Sokol-Hessner lab to measure pupil diameter during the same tasks as a proxy for experienced effort (da Silva Castanheira et al, 2021). We predict that lower controllers will subjectively experience hard choices as harder than higher controllers and will thus exhibit greater pupil dilation during hard choices.
### Gap/Twist 
Research on risky monetary decision-making has long sought to quantify the multiple processes that underlie decision-making. While this approach has fruitfully identified distinct processes that shape valuation and choice (like risk aversion), only recently has research begun to examine the roles of other types of cognitive processes in decision-making (e.g., memory, attention). One such process of recent interest is cognitive control, defined as the flexible allocation of mental resources (like attention or processing) in the service of goal attainment (Frömer & Shenhav, 2021). A role for control in risky choice would explain the observation that decisions vary in the amount of time they require – some decisions require more time (generally when the options under consideration are close in value), while others require less (when the options are more obviously different). Building off the insight that time reflects mental processing, this suggests that difficult choices may require control of cognitive processing, and that individual differences in cognitive control capacity may be related to individual differences during difficult decisions. This research project will explicitly test and quantify the relationship between control and risky monetary choice on an individual basis. 
## Hypothesis 
We hypothesize that the discrepancy in reaction time between easy and difficult choices will be inversely related to individuals’ capacity for cognitive control. For example, I predict that higher controllers (people with more capacity for cognitive control) will be faster to make risky decisions in hard (vs. easy) choices because they will more efficiently allocate resources on those trials. In contrast, lower controllers will require longer to reach the same decision because they are less effective at allocating cognitive resources. A secondary hypothesis predicts not only a smaller gap in reaction times between easy and hard choices for higher controllers, but overall faster responses, on average, for those same individuals. Finally, we additionally expect that the time required to make a choice will be longer if that choice follows a hard (versus easy) choice, and that high controllers will experience less of this carry-over. 
